So the thing that we're
mostly gonna be doing
is writing some JavaScript code in a file,
often with a .js extension, usually.
And then running that script, as it were,
in Node by passing the file name in.
So, if folks want to take this
opportunity to make a new file,
whereAmi.js or
whatever you want to call it.
And you can do this in your
code editor of choice,
you can do it at the command line,
if you would like, with.
Your command line code editor of choice,
I feel like people can.
Okay, so
if we create a script like whereAmI.js,
which I'm just gonna do right in here
by touching a file called whereAmI.js.
And I'm just gonna open my little
friend vim [LAUGH] because I
don't want to just leave my window.
So just real quickly, I'm gonna paste
this in, which I can do now, and
just a little Ctrl+V, okay.
And then I'm going to quit vim [LAUGH] and
let's just make sure with cat,
which is just gonna print out
whatever is in this file.
Let's just make sure that this worked.
And so, okay, so I have exactly
whatever I had in my slides.
Help me, [LAUGH] in this file now,
okay, cool.
So now we're gonna talk about what is
all going on in there in a second.
But we see some words
that we recognize and
we see some words that we
don't recognize maybe.
And for
now we're just going to try it out,
we're just going to node whereAmI.js.
And my shell knows what files I have, so
it's completing things for
me, thank you, computer.
So if I run this, it said,
you are here, and then after a minute,
it told me the path to my
current working directory.
And so let us look at the contents here,
with some syntax highlighting,
to see exactly how we
got that information.
And again, keeping in mind
that there was a little delay,
roughly a second or so between the first
line printing and the second line.
And so let's look at what's going on.
We've got our regular old console.log,
looks the same as our client side scripts.
We've got a line that doesn't look
like something we usually write in
client side scripts.
And that is calling a built in that
we have access to called process.
Which this gives us, so
it's not the same, but in the client,
in the browser, we can get access to the
window where this is currently running.
In the server side, we have access
to the process in this system
where this JavaScript stack and
its heap and all of its stuff
that's going on and
all of the Node environment [COUGH] sorry,
all of the Node stuff that's around it,
is actually running.
And that process object exposes
a whole bunch of different stuff,
you can read all about
it in the Node.js docs.
And by the way, we've now sort of exited
the frontier of what MDN
is our best friend for.
So now we're gonna have to
use other websites, which.
Anyway, so the Node.js docs will give you
all kinds of details about process and
all of the things that it can do.
And we're not going to
talk about all of them.
But one of the things it has is
a cwd method, which stands for
Current Working Directory,
which when you call it will give you.
The current working directory [LAUGH].
So, what we're doing then is calling our
good friend setTimeout, which we can use.
But similar to console is referring to
a totally different thing than what it
refers to in the browser.
Which is the browser's
built in timeout method.
So Node again has like
reimplemented this for us, so
that we can continue setting
timeouts all over the place.
And in our timeout, we are just
basically logging that string and
we're waiting a second for that timeout.
So that's what's happening.
Tiny little script, but
lots going on under the hood.
And really decades of evolution
of JavaScript encapsulated in
these three lines of code.
So yeah, so these are some things,
we just have to keep in mind,
some things are common.
There's like a Venn diagram of
APIs available in the browser
that we're used to,
like setTimeout and window.
And APIs that are available
in Node like process and
setTimeout [LAUGH] and
then ones that are available in both.
And so in this case,
setTimeout is the only one of these
three that is cross platform as it were.
But suffice it to say, this is obviously
not an exhaustive list of all of the,
well, perhaps obviously.
This is not an exhaustive list of all of
the things that you have access to out of
the box, as it were, in Node.
But keep in mind that not
everything you're used to getting,
like document, might be provided by
the ever so loving Node developers.
So keep in mind that we're now
in a totally different context.
And again JavaScript isn't really so
good at just running without
a surrounding context.
Because it was developed to live within
everything the browser was doing.
So, when it got brought to the server
side, a lot of that doing,
if we wanna keep using the same principles
and the same syntax and the same model,
if we will, paradigm of programming needs
to be reimplemented in a new environment.
And now there's even more different
environments where JavaScript can run.
We're not gonna get into it, but
Node is the most common one.